
Mike's 30 minute leftover turkey gumbo

chop:
2 med size red bell peppers
1 large vidialia or similar onion
4 stalks celery
2 cups leftover turkey
1 1/2 cups (pre cooked style)  lousiana style sauges
and set aside.
1 1/2 cups shrimp (optional) (frozen and/or precooked fine)

other ingredients:
1 14oz can of chicken stock
1 bottle of beer. do not use a dark beer. pale ale is as dark as you want to get.
heaping teaspoon of crushed garlic
1/2 teaspoon salt.
hotsauce - i recommend louisana crystal hot sauce with this. tabasco is too vinegary IMO.
3 cups white rice


In a stockpot, place 1 cup olive oil on high heat once oil is
shimmering hot, stir in not quite 1 cup of flour bit by bit to make
a roux (i use a biggest metal  casserole spoon i have) keep stirring
till it's the color of peanut butter.

you may have to turn the heat down a bit as you go. if you burn
this you are screwed so keep stirring and don't leave it whatever
you do

Now dump all the chopped veggies and mix. Be careful because the
roux is probably really hot at this point and stir.  It will be
pretty sludgy at this point. don't worry.

Next mix in the salt and garlic. The pour in the can of chicken
stock turn the heat back up to high if you've turned it down before.
mix. Next mix in the bottle of beer i usually use the whole bottle
but you might want to add incrementally to get it to the thickness
you want.  it will thicken a bit more later so aim for a tad thinner
that what you want in the end.

once a slight boil kicks in turn heat down to low and cover and let
simmer for 30 minutes while this is going on cook your rice. i
usually use about 3 cups of rice for this much gumbo don't use
instant rice unless you're desperate.

after 30 minutes let it cool a bit then serve over rice
gumbo is gravy-esque so don't skimp on the rice.

add hotsauce and maybe some salt to taste.

this makes a pretty decent sized batch. it keep well in the fridge
though and tastes just as good reheated. some variations are to use
frozen cooked shrimp instead of sausage and water or more chicken
stock instead of beer

if you use shrimp, just throw those in the last minute of simmering.
